Used especially for operational management and monitoring.

* Collects and manages operation data on your behalf
  * Any data that is generated by the environment that details how it is performing, runs, or any logging data it generates.

Used for:

* Metrics (AWS Products, Apps, on-premises)
  * Some metrics are done natively (CPU utilization) while others need the CloudWatch agent.
* Logs (AWS Products, Apps, on-premises)
  * Agent is needed for things not exposed to AWS natively.
* Events (AWS Services and schedules)
  * Can generate event from something happening that can then perform another action (i.e EC2 instance was terminated)
  * Can generate an event to do something on a schedule

Namespaces

* Container for monitoring data
* Names for the namespace can be almost anything as long as they stay within a rule set
* AWS uses namespaces such as AWS/service i.e AWS/EC2

Metric

* Collection of related data points in a time ordered structure (CPU usage, network, disk io, etc.)
* A metric is not for any particular server. A metric may be CPU usage and that metric will received data across lots of different EC2 instances.

If we have a CPU utilization metric, we may have EC2 instances reporting that CPI utilization and those reports are called datapoints.

Datapoints

* Timestamp (ISO8601)
* Value (i.e. 98.3)

How do we tell where these data points are coming from with just this data?

Dimensions: Separate data points for different things or perspectives within the same metric. Name/Value pairs.

InstanceId and InstanceType will be sent in as dimensions with the data points.

Alarm states

* OK
* ALARM
* Insufficient data
